For the record, I did not put this up here in defense of the author’s whininess, whiteness, man-ness, or even his conclusion. A general yearning for “something better” from an idealistic perspective residing therein? Maybe. I shared it from the page of a friend who lives and writes in China, and I assumed his interest was focused mainly on the TPP and other trade agreements affecting his side of the world. The TPP itself, at the behest of America’s money lords -- in part -- involves a production shift from China to places like Malaysia and Vietnam, and with it a whole host of nefarious effects and tacit endorsements, not the least of which include the premeditated, active accommodation of slave labor, human trafficking, and women’s rights atrocities. But more on that later.

 When Bernie Sanders lost 5 primaries in one night a couple of weeks ago, I posted an “I Heart Hillary” sign and explained why I would be throwing my allegiance behind her in the general election. In doing so, I bent over backwards to accommodate fellow Bernie supporters whom I suspected were not so keen on such defection. I did this because I figured they would be most riled by my post, in which I was officially jumping ship. They weren’t happy, of course. I did not anticipate, however, that the biggest backlash would come from fellow ship-jumpers, who took hard issue with the accommodation itself.

My point then, was – and continues to be – that although I would be deferring to the urgency of certain domestic social matters such as LGBTQ-equality, reproductive rights, and survival of the ACA via supporting Clinton and her surely liberal Supreme Court appointments, I would not be attacking or shaming those who chose not to. John MacArthur, in the article above, somewhat resorted to that himself, in the opposite direction. I don’t condone it either way. I believe this is a healthy discussion and that it needs to be engaged, civilly, because I see valid opinions on either side of the argument, both in the long-view version, and in the short-view version. Really, I think we need to deal with both simultaneously if we are to reach, if not a conclusion, then at least a begrudging understanding and allowance.

The short-view goes something like this: the Religious Right, the Tea Party, the disproportionately represented conservative movement in this country are hell bent on “repealing and replacing” the ACA, relegating the LGBTQ community to previous levels of second-class-citizenship, undermining minority protection legislation, and rendering abortion practically impossible via legal chicanery and unconstitutional state-level initiative. Short of throwing the bums out, which would be even more difficult than finding a certified women’s health clinic in Alabama, most of these issues hinge, ultimately, on the guidance and direction of the Supreme Court. Enter Hillary Clinton, whose court appointments would insulate us from the worst of it, and whose big fat VETOES would clean up the scraps. A sharp repudiation of the nascent racism, xenophobia, and jingoism illuminated by the Trump campaign is in order as well; crucial, I would say. 

That’s pretty cut-and-dry. A vote for Hillary is a vote for continued social progression – or more accurately, its defense against Cruhz-y encroachment -- and at least the maintenance, of the rudiments, of the beginnings, of a national healthcare system. A restoration of sanity and faith in the American majority, vis-à-vis the Trump garbage, would serve to salve our campaign wounds, adding moral victory to the electoral one. There are other things, too. Some. But they don’t fit on the marquee.

So I’ll be voting for Hillary Clinton in the general election, because of those things. I still hope Bernie gets the nomination.


Now, on to the accommodation of Sanders-Or-Nobodies and third-party enthusiasts:

Some issues are more apparent, more present, and more rhetorically lucrative than others. The struggles over same-sex marriage and reproductive rights are visceral, personal, and immediately affect-able; they are easily defined, and they are often (very often) indicative of one’s views on a host of other matters -- so, not only a battle of and for its own, but one of proxy that speaks to our national consciousness: What are our principles? Do we allow religion to play a central role in our politics? Are we Golden Rule? What is a “right” and what is a “privilege”? What did the Framers *really* mean here, and there, and is this part literal or interpretable? Who is this “Creator” in the Declaration of Independence, and should I give a f*ck?

But some issues reside outside our immediate space, by varying degrees -- mentally, emotionally, effectively, temporally, or, actually, spatially. I would argue foreign policy, the environment, economic and fiscal policy, trade, labor, energy, drugs, crime, food and agriculture fit this description, among, again, non-marquee others.

Exemplifying skeletally:

Since the “War on Terror” began, the United States military has incurred nearly 5,000 deaths, along with nearly 32,000 additional casualties. The annual rate of veteran-suicide is around 30 per 100,000. At least 1.3 million Middle Eastern civilians have been killed, with some estimates reaching as high as 4 million. A conservative estimate of civilian deaths in Iraq alone, as a result of the United States’ unlawful invasion, is 133,000. We have become a “kill first, ask questions later” empire. Ask yourself why.

The EPA is a ghost, along with its founding principles. While we shout “99% of scientists this, 99% of scientists that” across the bow toward the Arkists, we let oil companies write environmental policy. We pass laws illegalizing the disclosure of fracking chemicals, brush aside the destabilization of our quaking foundations, and make millions having the whole offending enterprise’s waste quietly injected into a neighboring state’s underground for “disposal.” We poison our aquifers, rivers, and city water supplies; our Gulfs and bays; we cripple litigation avenues for those devastated, injured, and killed due to the effects of energy exploration, extraction, and contamination. We genetically modify food crops – paying no heed to ecological ramifications, suppressing their evidence when expedient -- so that we can spray thick layers of stronger pesticides and herbicides on everything we eat (we shield those companies from any and all liability too, by the way). We talk big and celebrate Earth Day, but we do nothing, or what we can get by with doing (almost nothing). Ask yourself why.

Nearly 15% of American citizens live in a food-insecure household. Over half a million are homeless. 40 million are impoverished. The top 1% own more wealth than the bottom 90%. Since 1979, the income of the top 1% has increased nearly 300%, while the income of the bottom 20% has increased a miserable 16%. The exploitation and disenfranchisement of labor, meanwhile – when said labor is not out-sourced to slave workers of other ripe-for-the pickin’ countries at the command of corporate lobbyists -- continues, creating an economy so top-heavy it invites ruin. Investment banks and lenders destroy a generation’s savings, pay no price, and are returned the reins with no meaningful reforms. An 18-year old black man sells a bag of weed and ends up in prison for the rest of his life, or homeless, or dead. In the richest country on Earth. Why.

With higher education, we mine our young people for debt, mortgaging their financial futures for a shot at the clown and entrance into a depressed job market, where they languish, beg forbearance, and default to service employment whose wages pay only a fraction of what they need to live, much less repay loans. With primary education, we strip public schools of necessities in the name of austerity, bestow the burden of funding on already depressed local school districts, and chastise those who rely on free lunches or after-school accommodation.

Why?

Does voting outside the establishment solve any of these problems? No, not immediately. But they are immediate problems nonetheless. For the millions of brown people “over there” whose families we’ve murdered or will murder, they are immediate. For American military families now one less, or one mangled, they are immediate. For the child with not enough to eat, whose single parent can’t attend to him because she works three jobs just to pay the utilities and, hopefully, the rent; for the woman freezing under the bridge hoping to make it till morning; for the farmer without a farm because he has been crushed into submission and bankruptcy by DuPont or Monsanto, they are immediate. For the Bruneian woman in prison for bearing a child out of wedlock, or sentenced to death-by-stoning for committing adultery; for the Malaysian sex slaves slaughtered and buried in shallow mass graves while the United States upgrades its new trading partner from Tier 3 to Tier 2 trafficking status; for the family in Appalachia with no income, no town, no prospects, scant food, and chemical-laden water, they are immediate.

Where do these urgencies lie on the scale of what matters? And when do they matter enough that extricating ourselves from the entrenched mode of corporate governance that abides them – requires them -- becomes not only politically expedient, but imperative?

At some point we must take ownership. We must take up the mantle of -- and deal head-on with -- our moral responsibility as one of the world’s preeminent economic, military, scientific, intellectual, and cultural forces, which -- while we certainly, constantly, have to consider our most pressing domestic social issues -- requires a longer and more holistic view than that which we have historically employed.

There is more at stake here than just what’s in front of us. And there has been for a long time. It was true 150 years ago, it was true 100 years ago, and it was true 50 years ago. Perhaps if we had marshaled our undeniable electoral leverage at some crucial point in the past – told the Debbie Wasserman Schultzes of the day, “Enough!” -- we would not be faced with the lesser-of-two-evils choice we have today. And perhaps if we marshal our undeniable electoral leverage today, we will not be faced with the lesser-of-two-evils choice we have tomorrow. Be assured -- the lesser of those evils gets eviler every time we allow it to flourish and fester, until the day we find there is no “lesser” left.

That said, I Heart Hillary.



ps – the answer was money. 





