(July 2016)

Okay, so I was right about Trump being the Republican nominee. I called it last November after seeing interviews with people in line for one of his speeches. They were stoked, they were in it for the long term, and they weren't going to budge. That much was clear. I called it again, after he lost the Iowa caucus, for effect. There was a lot of self-satisfied "that was fun, Trump is done" trumpeting from the chattering class after Iowa, if you remember.

Back then, I was confident that Hillary OR Bernie would beat anybody the Republicans nominated, because I assumed the specter of Supreme Court nominations would bring liberals to the polls in droves. I am now revising that prediction to say that the *only* person Hillary had a chance of beating was Ted Cruz. Donald Trump already has the populist/anti-immigration/racist vote in the bag. And now he's pivoting to the center, softening his rhetoric, and drawing all the people who are fed up with DC and who don't trust Hillary, which is pretty much every single Independent. Hillary's base...is minuscule. The only way she can win is with gargantuan turnout. And she's not going to get it.

Why? Because young progressives don't give a shit. And it's about time we started paying attention to them. Progress isn't about accommodating those who came before, it's about accommodating those who are yet to come. It's about the present and the future. Any reasonable parent wants one thing more than any other: a better future for his or her children. Getting "credit" for enabling that future is of no concern. A good parent does not catch up in inducing or requiring one's child to laud him or her, or to imitate the parent's modes and methods. A good parent, simply, abides a child's positive development, fosters growth no matter how. And that's where we are, right now: either accommodating progression and growth as a society, unqualified, or requiring a perverse dowry from those whose instincts are to take the baton and run without looking back.

Democrats had a chance to nominate a candidate with broad-based liberal support, and they instead chose to nominate a committed oligarch. Her baseline departures from Tea Party theocrats and neo-cons -- reproductive autonomy, lgbt and minority civil rights, the ACA, while obviously points in her favor -- will not be enough to inspire the turnout required for her to win. Real progressives want a real Progressive; they want real change, real commitment to labor, real commitment to the environment, real commitment to *not killing millions of innocent civilians in the name of cheap xenophobia, military-industrial contracts, and oil power plays.* They want unapologetic American socialism, and unapologetic American altruism. They know Corporatism, and they are done with it. They know institutionalized bribery, and they are through with it. (Yes, it's bribery. Stop twisting yourselves into pretzels accommodating and justifying it.)

They know Holism, and they are fine with it. Unafraid of it. Proponents of it. Let 'em run.

So when we lose this election, I don't want to hear shit-one from Democrats about Bernie supporters. I don't want to hear about naivete or disrespect. It will be on you. We tried to nominate a progressive. You fucked it up. You had a chance to welcome an entirely new and enthusiastic generation of progressives into the process, and instead you said, "Fuck you -- we're with Them."
